welcome back to movies explained today
we are going to look at the movie the
purge anarchy
a young waitress eva is collecting cash
from one of the customers mr sabian
while the newscaster speaks in the
background the newscaster says if you
are not purging i will advise you to get
off the streets as quickly as possible
it will be a war out there the
waitresses are discussing why mrs
crowley is not letting them go carlos
asks the ladies to calm down as there is
plenty of time left before the purging
starts mrs crowley comes and dismisses
the employees asking them to stay safe
everyone is leaving when carlos asks eva
to ride with him she rejects his offer
and tells him to stay safe another
waitress at the place tanya comes to eva
and says if he would have asked me to
ride i would have taken it tanya asks
her whether she has talked to mrs
crowley yet or not eva becoming
disappointed says i can't afford his
medicines any longer tanya hugs eva and
they both leave for their houses leo is
loading his revolver while he looks at a
picture of him with his son the scene
shifts to a car where liz is driving
while shane is sitting looking at his
photos with liz a new founding father
appears on one of the screens addresses
the people and talks about the purge eva
is walking home when a man stops her and
offers her any protection she needs she
rejects his idea and moves towards her
house when she enters her building diego
starts a conversation with her asking
how she is doing and she should take his
protection eva says no need thanks and
heads to her place eva's father and her
daughter kali listen to one of the
leaders of an anti-purge group carmelo
who is making people rebel against the
killing of the people in the name of
cleansing souls and releasing aggression
he tells the people that this night is
about killing the poor when we cannot
protect ourselves kali's grandfather
says i can't hear more of this crap and
cali closes the laptop he says that it
is just cheap talk and the man is just
talking and will not actually do
anything upon asking where she was eva
comes home and tells her father that she
was picking up his medicine papariko
gets agitated and tells her he doesn't
want to take his medication eva and rico
argue when kali steps in and asks rico
to take medicine for her eva explains
the plan she has for the night of
locking the place and having dinner rico
drops the idea and tells the girls he is
gonna be taking a nap during the night
asking not to be disturbed he hugs eva
and tells the girls he loves them so
much cali finds it weird but eva
comments that it's just because of the
purge eva tells cali that things didn't
go as planned with mrs crowley and
leaves to take a bath before locking the
place liz and shane are talking when liz
says i want to tell your sister to which
shane replies i don't feel like telling
anyone as soon as i say it aloud to
other people it is irreversible they are
talking when they head back from the
grocery store to their car
shane tries to open the door but fails
so he asks liz to unlock it liz tells
him that the door is already unlocked a
masked man comes closer to shane and
then goes back to his group of people
who have their faces painted and masked
shane and liz quickly get into the car
and start driving away liz asks shane
what was all that about to which he
replies i don't know the scene shifts to
leo who is answering the door after his
ex-wife rings the bell she tells him i
have been calling you why didn't you
pick up leo seems unbothered and asks
her to leave and go to her new family
and husband she replies you don't have
to go out there don't do it it will not
make you feel better she kisses him on
his cheek and leaves kali is still
listening to carmelo who keeps
emphasizing fighting back rico dresses
up and leaves in a limousine with the
men in black suits liz and shane are
arguing with each other shane says you
get to a conclusion and call it a joint
decision to which liz replies you agree
with me and forget it after a week liz
demands to tell shane's sister about
their separation but shane insists that
he doesn't want it to happen their car
stops and runs out of battery leo is
riding his vehicle while the person on
the radio says that only 45 minutes are
left for the purge to start eva is
cooking dinner and after she finishes
making it she puts a gun on the table
and tells kali they will use it if
needed shane and liz are trying to get
off the street before the purge begins
but they fail to find any help around
they see masked people crowding over the
road and start running the commencement
of the annual purge starts the screen
states any and all crimes including
murder will be legal for 12 continuous
hours all police fire and medical
emergency services will remain
unavailable shane and liz are running to
find a place to hide when the purge
siren starts big daddy points the gun at
the people and starts shooting blindly
killing all of them in his sight shane
and liz keep on moving hiding from the
masked men eva is setting the table for
dinner when kali goes to check in on
rico she finds a letter with rico
missing from his room eva rushes in and
starts reading the letter i am dying i
will be a martyr for a wealthy family
tonight they have paid me one hundred
thousand dollars and they will be
transferred to your bank accounts take
the money and have a safe life kali and
eva become sad kali starts insisting on
finding rico and contact him in any way
eva tells her now it is too late and
they cannot stop it grumbling noises
start coming from the building eva and
kali sneak out through the window and
find an army of soldiers entering kali
questions their identity to which eva
says i don't know gunshots fire when
diego enters their house he says i am
here to protect you eva come out you
[ __ ] leo is driving around the streets
seeing people killed mercilessly diego
keeps shouting and yelling he says i am
gonna let the beast out on both of you
it is my right given by the new founding
fathers eva starts crying and begs diego
to let colly go they are talking when
diego is shot multiple times by the
people in uniform they drag eva and cali
out to their bus informing big daddy
about having them for his personal purge
they both try to put up a fight when leo
stops his car he is trying to convince
himself to keep driving and not picking
the gun at last he loses his temper goes
out and starts shooting at the men in
uniform shane and liz being followed by
the group of masked men hide in leo's
car thinking they are safe leo brings
eva and kali to his car when he finds
them both he points a gun at shane and
liz but after finding out they are not
armed and are not taking part in the
purge lowers it down they are talking
when the bus is full of killers come and
they start the car and leave the bullets
strike the vehicle multiple times but
leo manages to get away from the purgers
leo questions liz and shane why were you
out on the streets and asks eva about
the army storming her place the car
stops and all of them get out of it liz
says we have seven hours before the
purge ends we have to find a place to
hide leo tells them that the hunters
will find them with their dogs he
regrets helping them and says it was
none of my business
shane tells him that he made it his
business when he stepped in the matter
leo gives each of them a gun and says i
have to be somewhere you will slow me
down just try to stay off the streets
everyone panics because of leo leaving
them alone in the middle of the purge
eva offers him a car in return for his
protection she tells him about her
friend who lives a few blocks away she
calls tanya and confirms about the
vehicle they start moving towards
tanya's house on their way they find a
woman killing people and shouting that
killing people is her right leo asks
everyone to stay silent and not to move
but shane gets stuck in one of the traps
and grabs the attention of the purgers
around after firing and cross-firing
they run away shane becomes suspicious
of leo while liz expresses her gratitude
for having him around kali asks leo his
name and says you are good with guns
either you are a cop or a criminal leo
calls her a pain in the ass and asks
everyone to shut up as they move they
see a man hanging on a building they
reach a road where carmelo and his
people have killed all the uniform men
leo checks the bus for arms and
ammunition they find high-tech equipment
inside leo points out at one of the
monitors highlighting eva's place he
shows them that her building was a
target like many others they take the
guns from inside and start moving they
stop and hide behind a wall due to
people shooting and cheering in the
front liz is scared by mice and she
shouts one of the people hears her and
comes to check when leo chokes him while
they are walking kali asks leo why did
you stop at our place and save us people
are getting killed all over the city why
did you help us
leo tells her that they were putting a
hell of a fight which reminded him of
someone he sends kali back to eva while
they are moving leo stops and takes off
his bulletproof jacket he gives it to
collie and asks her to put it on at
first she refuses but then agrees to
wear it vehicles approach and people
start firing all over the place eva
falls but leo picks her up and carries
her before she comes in contact with any
bullet shane predicts that they are not
going to make it out he and liz start
shooting at the people in the car but
shane gets shot the vehicle of the
attackers blows up
eva and kali along with leo reach a safe
point and shane and liz join them in a
bit they carry shane and reach tonya's
place leo puts a bandage on shane's
wound tanya asks the group to eat and
drink get food in the stomach and
survive the night tanya's father and
brother-in-law come in after checking
the building leo goes to change his
shirt when eva thanks him for saving
them shane and liz are joking around
when liz tells shane you scared the [ __ ]
out of me i thought i was losing you but
i still think we should tell your sister
they continue enjoying each other's
company leo asks eva do you trust your
friend she drinks and takes pills eva
assures him that they will be okay as
long as they stay there leo demands the
car eva promised to which she says i
know what you are going through you are
going out there to kill someone who
wronged you you believe in this don't
you leo asks eva to take care of kali
eva confesses that she lied about the
car because they needed him leo says you
don't have any idea what you've taken
from me leo is about to leave when kali
tries to stop him kali tries to convince
him by reminding him that his son would
not want him to do this they are talking
when tanya's sister starts firing and
kills tanya she reveals that she found
out about the affair between tanya and
her husband the group leaves the family
behind when they see the perimeter
surrounded by the men in uniform big
daddy advises his men to cover the area
and kill leo while bringing eva and kali
back leo goes and urges everyone to stay
inside he tries to fight when the same
people chasing shane and liz earlier
abduct leo in the group cally asks the
masked men how did they find them and
why haven't they killed anyone yet the
man says we are not going to kill anyone
we just need the money the masked crew
takes them out of the van and hands them
to others in return for money they take
them upstairs an anchor announces our
next batch is here are you ready to take
a look at them the curtain moves up and
a wealthy audience sees the group the
anchor says as it is the last batch of
the purge so the starting price will be
two hundred thousand three families are
selected to hunt the group the woman
advises them to take their signature
blades with them to the hunting ground
the group is released on the arena while
the purgers chase them leo kills one of
them and gets the night vision glasses
and gun from him he kills more of them
when carmelo and his men attack the area
shane is shot and so liz stays with the
rebel group to avenge him leo takes kali
and eva with him to the place where the
guy who murdered his son lives he asks
them to stay in the car while he goes in
and kills the man leo goes in and tries
to kill him but doesn't he is coming out
of the house when big daddy shoots him
big daddy is going to make his final
shot when warren shoots him big daddy's
men are about to hit everyone when the
siren sounds signaling the end of the
purge warren takes leo to the hospital
the movie ends with 709 march 22 364
days until the next purge written on the
screen
[Music]